#summary What is new in current version
#labels Featured

=What's new=

Changes that will be available in upcoming release can be found [http://www.pylatinam.com/wiki/ here].

*0.1.9*

 * Improved declension of nouns.
 * Added new conjugations.
 * Added WORDS by William Whitaker; for now verbs and nouns only. Definitions are distributed with the code.
 * Removed local web server - no point losing time and updating code when http://www.pyLatinam.com is launched.
 * Removed batch derivation within console.
 * Broken code: adjectives and pronouns. It will be updated in next release, when lexicon module will hopefully be sorted out.


*0.1.8*

 * Improved declension of nouns;
 * Rewritten code in Lex;
 * Added makefiles.py that makes HTML, XML and TXT files with outputs using all items in lexicon files;
 * Minor code improvement;
 * Online version has its own CGI scripts that are not part of this distribution: available on [http://www.pylatinam.com/interactive/ pyLatinam Interactive Pages];
 * Other code improvements;
 * Documentation updated.


*0.1.1*

 * Version of pylatinam is now reduced to 0.1.1 and all counting of future version from now on continues from this number. Inside the project almost all modules now have version 0.2.x.
 * Name of the package in namespace is now 'pylatinam' instead od 'latinam'.
 * Names of Latin tenses are changed according to Wikipedia.
 * Added: xml output.
 * Added: localhost service (html).
 * Removed: many lines are removed, including syntax module.
 * More Pythonian code :)
 * Improved documentation.
 * This version is done on Linux, hence the first line in some files. Please note that this code is fully supported on Windows platform.
 * License text is added, with my full name included. In the same time all depreciated releases were deleted.
 

*0.0.5.2.5a*

 * fixed: 'out.py' in HTML output used wrong order of cases
 * minor changes in html/txt template 

*0.0.5.2.5*

 * 'morph.adjective' - added support for gradation (ver 0.5.1)
 * 'morph.preposition' - Prep() now does not require noun (ver 0.5)
 * Removed most of the nonfunctional code
 * Added readme.txt with basic info, including note about New BSD Licence
 * Changed my alias "miller" to my alias "mr.marvin", to make it consistent with info on The Python Package Index
 * Added __url__='http://pylatinam.googlecode.com/' in most modules